** *Uthernet ethernet emulation setup instructions. ***

March 19 2006 - R. Glenn Jones

To enable Ethernet support in Applewin you must first download and
install Winpcap.

An Alternative to downloading winpcap is to get the Ethereal package which
includes winpcap along with Ethereal network analyzer code. To use Ethereal to
capture traffic (other then your own) you must be plugged into a shared hub vs a
switch. If you plan on doing any network programming ethereal is a definite must
have.

Winpcap: http://www.winpcap.org/install/default.htm or Ethereal: http://www.ethereal.com/download.html

After Applewin starts, select the settings ICON and then select the Ethernet settings button.

Uthernet will be disabled. Select Uthernet from the list of available
ethernet emulations (currently the only one).

Select the ethernet interface you want to work with. This must be a physical ethernet interface.

If you have more then one interface you may need to select them in turn
in order to get the text description for each interface vs what winpcap
likes to use for a reference. Select Ok. and then close Applewin.
*Note:* Wireless does not work with winpcap.

NOTE: Due to a current limitation you must exit Applewin and re-run
Applewin for 'a' ethernet interface change to take effect.

In order to test the Ethernet emulation out you should grab a copy of Contiki for the Apple II here

http://www.a2retrosystems.com/downloads.htm

Grab the 80 Col. Primary Disk and Supplementary Disk images if using Apple //e emulation or the 40 Col 
versions if running Apple II+ emulation. You should also grab a copy of the Uthernet/Contiki getting 
started guide http://www.a2retrosystems.com/a2UtherManual.pdf

When you run applewin again, select the contiki80pri.dsk image. Boot AppleWin.

Once Contiki is loaded then press Enter to clear the welcome screen and press ESC for a menu.

Choose Directory Application and then select configuration edit program. Tab down to the Slot param
and change it to '3'. The emulation only works in slot 3. 

If you do not have DHCP support in your local Lan then setup your static IP address information here as well. Save and exit.

If you have DHCP support in your local lan then press ESC and choose Directory Application again, and then select DHCP client.

Hit eneter on request Address and you should see the IP information updated. Close the window and then press ESC again.

Select the web browser and hit Enter a couple of times.
Adam Dunkels web site should show up if things are working properly.

Try a few other web sites if the first one isn't working in case it is temporarily down.
You may also need to configure/disable your firewall if you are having problems.

Glenn